These learners from Calitzdorp High School excelled dur­ing the SA Junior Chess Cham­- pion­ships. Melinda Oosthuizen (back left) has been invited to the SA Junior Closed Championships in May, Hanzé Flippies (back right) and his u.18B team won a bronze medal, Amelick Pieter- se (front left) and his u.14B team a gold medal and Adrian Coet­zee (front right) and his u.12B team a bronze medal. Adrian was also overall winner in his category and won six out of seven games. With them is coach Jurgen Coetzee. Jurgen Coetzee (left) and Jim Frew during a chess training class. Photo’s supplied SIX students from Calitzdorp High School partici­pated in the SA Junior Chess Championships from 3 to 10 January in Boksburg – an achievement which is the result of a chess tradition at the school as well as support from chess tutors and masters. According to Chris Ball, chairperson of the Redstone Trust, the trust is impressed by the way in which the school uses chess as a stimulus for the young people and has increased its sponsorship for the school’s chess activities. “The benefits of playing chess, particularly in the case of children, are well researched and documented in cognitive neuroscience. It is a game that appeals to people from every segment of the community and it allows children from underprivileged circumstances to be themselves and develop their own abilities and grow their confidence. It is not elitist – it uses natural thinking processes that we all have. “ A little regular exercise at the chess board goes a long way in boosting brain power in kids. The Redstone Trust is delighted to be able to increase its sponsorship to the school for its chess activities so that the children will be able to participate on a wider basis in chess events.” Close to 100 learners receive intensive training every Thursday under the guidance of Jurgen Coet­zee of Oudtshoorn while Oom Jim Frew of Calitzdorp gives his time generously to support the chess players. Marie-Reinet Conradie, affectionately known in the school as Tannie Poppie, is the organiser. During 2017 five pupils received honours colours for their participation in the Eden (SWD) SA Schools Tournament. • The Redstone Mountain Bike and Trail Running Weekend held annually in May at Kruisri­vier is the principal fundraising event of the Redstone Trust, which raises money to support less fortunate individuals and organisations in the Kannaland District.